HCP for IBM Z (#5792)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/hosted_control_planes/hosted_bm_agents_ibmz.adoc

Reviewer: For network type is vswitch add zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0 in paramfile

For installations on DASD-type disks, use rd.dasd= to specify the installation disk. For installations on FCP-type disks, use rd.zfcp=.

Reviewer: remove zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0  from paramfile.

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz]
= Adding IBM Z agents to the InfraEnv resource (Technology Preview)

> 

Reviewer 2: We still need a short description here: Why does the user want to do this?

Usually something like:

You can add IBM Z agents too...... for.......

Reviewer 2: Why do this?

> **Note:** Unless stated otherwise, these practices apply to both z/VM and RHEL KVM installations on IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE.

Reviewer 2: changing practices to procedures

. Start your IBM Z environment with the downloaded PXE images from the 'InfraEnv' resource. After the Agents are created, the host communicates with the Assisted Service and registers in the same namespace as the `InfraEnv` resource on the management cluster.

* For IBM Z with KVM, run the following command:

> +

Reviewer 2: Format issue, this is prob not suppose to be a bullet...I will play with it.

Reviewer 3: It's something the user has to do depending if he has a KVM or z/VM (line 27) setup.

Reviewer 2: Done

[source,bash]
----
virt-install \
   --name "<vm_name>" \
   --autostart \
   --ram=16384 \
   --cpu host \
   --vcpus=4 \
   --location "<path_to_kernel_initrd_image>,kernel=kernel.img,initrd=initrd.img" \
   --disk <qcow_image_path> \
   --network network:macvtap-net,mac=<mac_address> \
   --graphics none \
   --noautoconsole \
   --wait=-1 \
   --extra-args "rd.neednet=1 nameserver=<nameserver>   coreos.live.rootfs_url=http://<http_server>/rootfs.img random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs=console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8"
----  

* For IBM with z/VM, complete the following procedure:

.. Update the parameter file to add `rootfs_url`, `network_adaptor` and `disk_type`. 
+
.Example parameter file

> +

Reviewer 2: Need to change 31. -- I will fix.

[source,bash]
----
rd.neednet=1 \ 
console=ttysclp0  \
coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> \

> ip=<IP_guest_vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0::<network_adaptor>:none \ <1>
> nameserver=<nameserver> \ 
> zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0 \

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ip=<IP_guest_vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0::<network_adaptor>:none \ 
nameserver=<nameserver> \ 
zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0 \ <1>
```

rd.znet=qeth,<network_adaptor_range>,layer2=1 \
rd.<disk_type>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on \ <2>
rd.luks.options=discard \ 
ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal \ 
console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 \
coreos.inst.persistent-kargs="console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8
----

> <1> TBD

Reviewer 2: Note to come back to this line 48 Monday.

> <1> TBD

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> For installations with VSwitch add `zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0`. Omit this entry for installations with OSA, Hipersockets, and RoCE.
```

<2> For installations on DASD-type disks, use `rd.dasd=` to specify the installation disk. For installations on FCP-type disks, use `rd.zfcp=`.

..  Move `initrd`,  kernel images, and the parameter file to the guest VM by running the following commands:
+
[source,bash]
----
vmur pun -r -u -N kernel.img $INSTALLERKERNELLOCATION/<image name>
vmur pun -r -u -N generic.parm $PARMFILELOCATION/paramfilename
vmur pun -r -u -N initrd.img $INSTALLERINITRAMFSLOCATION/<image name>
----

.. Run the following command from the guest VM console.
+
[source,bash]
----
cp ipl c
----

. To list the agents and their properties, enter the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n <hosted_control_plane_namespace> get agents
----
+

> .Example output

Reviewer 2: Note to change line 75

[source,bash]
----
NAME    CLUSTER APPROVED    ROLE    STAGE
50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d    auto-assign
5e498cd3-542c-e54f-0c58-ed43e28b568a    auto-assign
----
+
Optionally, you can set the agent ID `installation_disk_id` and hostname in the specification. 

. Run the following command to approve the agent:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n <hosted_control_plane_namespace> patch agent 50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d -p '{"spec":{"installation_disk_id":"/dev/sda","approved":true,"hostname":"worker-zvm-0.hostedn.example.com"}}' --type merge
----

. Run the following command to verify that the agents are approved:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n <hosted_control_plane_namespace> get agents
----
+
.Example output

[source,bash]
----
NAME                                            CLUSTER     APPROVED   ROLE          STAGE
50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d             true       auto-assign
5e498cd3-542c-e54f-0c58-ed43e28b568a             true       auto-assign
----

. For IBM z/VM, edit the agent that you patched in the previous step and update the `installerArgs` setting in the `spec` section as follows:

+
[source,bash]
----

> installerArgs: '[ "--append-karg", "rd.neednet=1", "--append-karg", "ip=<Guest vm ip>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0:<hostname>:<network adaptor>:none", "--append-karg", "nameserver=<nameserver>", "--append-karg", "rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1", "--append-karg", "rd.<storage type>=<storage>" ]'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
----
installerArgs: 
--append-karg rd.neednet=1 \
--append-karg ip=<IP_guest_vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0:<hostname>:<network_adaptor>:none \
--append-karg nameserver=<nameserver> \
--append-karg rd.znet=qeth,<network_adaptor_range>,layer2=1 \
--append-karg rd.<storage_type>=<storage>
```

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz]
= Adding IBM Z agents to the InfraEnv resource (Technology Preview)

> Start KVM on IBM Z and IBM z/VM with the downloaded PXE images from the 'InfraEnv' resource. After the Agents are created, the host communicates with the Assisted Service and registers in the same namespace as the `InfraEnv` resource on the management cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Start your IBM Z environment with the downloaded PXE images from the 'InfraEnv' resource. After the Agents are created, the host communicates with the Assisted Service and registers in the same namespace as the `InfraEnv` resource on the management cluster.
```

Reviewer 3: I think we should have a note either here or at the beginning of `configure_hosted_bm_ibmz.adoc` 

Note: Unless stated otherwise, these practices apply to both z/VM and RHEL KVM installations on IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE.

> - For KVM on IBM Z, run the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For IBM Z with KVM, run the following command:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
virt-install \
   --name "<vm_name>" \
   --autostart \
   --ram=16384 \
   --cpu host \
   --vcpus=4 \
   --location "<path_to_kernel_initrd_image>,kernel=kernel.img,initrd=initrd.img" \
   --disk <qcow_image_path> \
   --network network:macvtap-net,mac=<mac_address> \
   --graphics none \
   --noautoconsole \
   --wait=-1 \
   --extra-args "rd.neednet=1 nameserver=<nameserver>   coreos.live.rootfs_url=http://<http_server>/rootfs.img random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs=console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8"
----  

> - For IBM z/VM, start KVM by completing the following procedure:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For IBM with z/VM, complete the following procedure:
```

> . Update the paramfile to add the `rootfs url`, `net type` and `disk type`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Update the parameter file to add `rootfs_url`, `network_adaptor` and `disk_type`. 
```

Reviewer 3: Not sure what "net type" is? Please verify with SMEs

> The following example shows a  sample command for the `VSwitch` network with a `fcp singlepath/ dasd` disk:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Example parameter file for the `VSwitch` network
```

Reviewer 3: Maybe have a note that multipathing is not supported.

+
[source,bash]
----

> rd.neednet=1 console=ttysclp0   coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> ip=<IP for guest vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0::<network adaptor>:none nameserver=<nameserver> zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0  rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1 rd.<zfcp/dasd>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs="console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8"
> ----  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
rd.neednet=1 \ 
console=ttysclp0  \
coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> \
ip=<IP_guest_vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0::<network_adaptor>:none \
nameserver=<nameserver> \ 
zfcp.allow_lun_scan=0 \
rd.znet=qeth,<network_adaptor_range>,layer2=1 \
rd.<disk_type>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on \ <1>
rd.luks.options=discard \ 
ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal \ 
console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 \
coreos.inst.persistent-kargs="console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8
----
<1> For installations on DASD-type disks, use `rd.dasd=` to specify the installation disk. For installations on FCP-type disks, use `rd.zfcp=`.
```

Reviewer 3: Do any of the other variables require callouts? Please clarify

> The following example is a sample command for the `OSA` and `Hipersocket` networks with a `fcp singlepath/dasd` disk:

Reviewer 3: This and the following parameter file examples should be cleaned up like above. But before putting more effort into this we need a decision, which ones are really required.

+
[source,bash]
----
rd.neednet=1 console=ttysclp0         coreos.live.rootfs_url=<rootfs_url> ip=<IP for guest vm>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0 nameserver=<nameserver> rd.<zfcp/dasd>=<storage> random.trust_cpu=on rd.luks.options=discard ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8 coreos.inst.persistent-kargs="console=tty1 console=ttyS1,115200n8" 
----  

.  Move `initrd`,  kernel images, and the paramfile to the guest VM by running the following commands:

+
[source,bash]
----
vmur pun -r -u -N kernel.img $INSTALLERKERNELLOCATION/<image name>
vmur pun -r -u -N generic.parm $PARMFILELOCATION/paramfilename
vmur pun -r -u -N initrd.img $INSTALLERINITRAMFSLOCATION/<image name>
----  
. Run the following command from the guest VM console to start KVM.
+
[source,bash]
----
cp ipl c
----

- To list the agents and their properties, enter the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n <hosted_control_plane_namespace> get agents
----

.Example output
+
[source,bash]
----
NAME    CLUSTER APPROVED    ROLE    STAGE
50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d    auto-assign
5e498cd3-542c-e54f-0c58-ed43e28b568a    auto-assign

> ----

Reviewer 3: Clean up formatting

Optionally, you can set the agent ID `installation_disk_id` and hostname in the specification. 

. Run the following command to approve the agent:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n <hosted_control_plane_namespace> patch agent 50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d -p '{"spec":{"installation_disk_id":"/dev/sda","approved":true,"hostname":"worker-zvm-0.hostedn.example.com"}}' --type merge
----

. Run the following command to verify that the agents are approved:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n <hosted_control_plane_namespace> get agents
----

.Example output
+
[source,bash]

> ----

Reviewer 3: Clean up formatting

NAME                                            CLUSTER     APPROVED   ROLE          STAGE
50c23cda-cedc-9bbd-bcf1-9b3a5c75804d             true       auto-assign
5e498cd3-542c-e54f-0c58-ed43e28b568a             true       auto-assign
----

. For IBM z/VM, edit the agent that you patched in the previous step and update the `installerArgs` setting in the `spec` section as follows:

- For network types such as `VSwitch`, `OSA`, and `Hipersocket`, enter the following command:
+

> [source,bash]

Reviewer 3: Clean up formatting

----
installerArgs: '[ "--append-karg", "rd.neednet=1", "--append-karg", "ip=<Guest vm ip>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0:<hostname>:<network adaptor>:none", "--append-karg", "nameserver=<nameserver>", "--append-karg", "rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1", "--append-karg", "rd.<storage type>=<storage>" ]'
----

- For network types such as `ROCE`, enter the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
installerArgs: '[ "--append-karg", "rd.neednet=1", "--append-karg", "ip=<Guest vm ip>::<nameserver>:255.255.255.0:<hostname>","--append-karg", "nameserver=<nameserver>", "--append-karg", "rd.znet=qeth,<network adaptor range>,layer2=1","--append-karg", "rd.<storage type>=<storage>" ]'

> ----

Reviewer 3: Use one command with callouts and clean up formatting

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz]
= Adding IBM Z agents to the InfraEnv resource (Technology Preview)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Adding agents in an IBM Z environment requires additional steps, which are described in detail in this section. 

```

[#hosted-bare-metal-adding-agents-ibmz]
= Adding IBM Z agents to the InfraEnv resource (Technology Preview)

Adding agents in an IBM Z environment requires additional steps, which are described in detail in this section. 

*Note:* Unless stated otherwise, these procedures apply to both z/VM and RHEL KVM installations on IBM Z and IBM LinuxONE.

> . Start your IBM Z environment with the downloaded PXE images from the `InfraEnv`` resource. After the Agents are created, the host communicates with the Assisted Service and registers in the same namespace as the `InfraEnv` resource on the management cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Start your IBM Z environment with the downloaded PXE images from the `InfraEnv` resource. After the Agents are created, the host communicates with the Assisted Service and registers in the same namespace as the `InfraEnv` resource on the management cluster.
```
